Add data type support page (#986)
ROCm/hipBLAS: docs/reference/data-type-support.rst

          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`Dot <hipblas_dot>`
          - Computes the dot product: :math:`result = x^T y`
          - ✅
          - ✅
          - ✅
          - ✅    

        *
          - :ref:`NRM2 <hipblas_nrm2>`
          - Computes the Euclidean norm of a vector.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`Rot <hipblas_rot>`, :ref:`Rotg <hipblas_rotg>`
          - Applies and generates a Givens rotation matrix.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`Rotm <hipblas_rotm>`, :ref:`Rotmg <hipblas_rotmg>`
          - Applies and generates a modified Givens rotation matrix.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`Scal <hipblas_scal>`
          - Scales a vector by a scalar: :math:`x = \alpha x`
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`Swap <hipblas_swap>`
          - Swaps corresponding elements of two vectors x and y: :math:`x_i \leftrightarrow y_i \quad \text{for} \quad i = 0, 1, 2, \ldots, n - 1`
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

>   .. tab-item:: Complex types

Reviewer: May be easier if these are just combined with the above table? Just a suggestion, I'm fine either way.

Author: We got a too long table, that's why I had to split. Selected the current form at rocBLAS:
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/rocBLAS/en/develop/reference/data-type-support.html

Level 2 functions - matrix-vector operations
--------------------------------------------

Level-2 functions perform matrix-vector operations.

.. tab-set::

  .. tab-item:: Float types
    :sync: float-type

    .. list-table::
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 15, 45, 10, 10, 10, 10

        * 
          - Function
          - Description
          - float16
          - bfloat16
          - float
          - double

        *
          - :ref:`GBMV <hipblas_gbmv>`
          - General band matrix-vector multiplication: :math:`y = \alpha A x + \beta y`
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`GEMV <hipblas_gemv>`
          - General matrix-vector multiplication: :math:`y = \alpha A x + \beta y`
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`GER <hipblas_ger>`
          - Generalized rank-1 update: :math:`A = \alpha x y^T + A`
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`GERU and GERC <hipblas_ger>`
          - Generalized rank-1 update for unconjugated or conjugated complex numbers: :math:`A = \alpha x y^T + A`
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ❌

>           - ❌

Reviewer: N/A might be more fitting here

Author: Fixed. I will fix this at rocBLAS side too, after we merged in this PR.

          - Hermitian matrix-vector multiplication.
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA

        *
          - :ref:`HER <hipblas_her>`, :ref:`HER2 <hipblas_her2>`
          - Hermitian rank-1 and rank-2 update.
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA

        *
          - :ref:`HPR <hipblas_hpr>`, :ref:`HPR2 <hipblas_hpr2>`
          - Hermitian packed rank-1 and rank-2 update of packed.
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA

  .. tab-item:: Complex types
    :sync: complex-type

    .. list-table::
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 15, 55, 10, 20 

        * 
          - Function
          - Description
          - complex
          - double complex

        *
          - :ref:`GBMV <hipblas_gbmv>`
          - General band matrix-vector multiplication: :math:`y = \alpha A x + \beta y`
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`GEMV <hipblas_gemv>`
          - General matrix-vector multiplication: :math:`y = \alpha A x + \beta y`
          - ✅
          - ✅

        *
          - :ref:`GER <hipblas_ger>`
          - Generalized rank-1 update: :math:`A = \alpha x y^T + A`
          - ❌

>           - ❌

Reviewer: Again, maybe N/A

Author: Fixed. I will fix this at rocBLAS side too, after we merged in this PR.

          - Update symmetric matrix with one matrix product or by using two matrices.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`SYRKX <hipblas_syrkx>`
          - SYRKX adds an extra matrix multiplication step before updating the symmetric matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRMM <hipblas_trmm>`
          - Triangular matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRSM <hipblas_trsm>`
          - Triangular solve with multiple right-hand sides.
          - ✅
          - ✅
        * 
          - :ref:`HEMM <hipblas_hemm>`
          - Hermitian matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`HERK <hipblas_herk>`, :ref:`HER2K <hipblas_her2k>`
          - Update Hermitian matrix with one matrix product or by using two matrices.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`HERKX <hipblas_herkx>`
          - HERKX adds an extra matrix multiplication step before updating the Hermitian matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRTRI <hipblas_trtri>`
          - Triangular matrix inversion.
          - ❌

>           - ❌

Reviewer: These should be supported.

Author: Fixed.

separately for every function for the different backends in the
:ref:`rocBLAS extensions <rocblas:extension>` and
`cuBLAS extensions <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cublas/index.html#blas-like-extension>`_ 
documentation.

SOLVER API
----------

:ref:`Solver API <solver_api>` is for solving linear systems, computing matrix
inverses, and performing matrix factorizations.

.. tab-set::

  .. tab-item:: Float types
    :sync: float-type

    .. list-table::
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 15, 45, 10, 10, 10, 10

        * 
          - Function
          - Description
          - float16
          - bfloat16
          - float
          - double

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRF <hipblas_getrf>`
          - Compute the LU factorization of a general matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRS <hipblas_getrs>`
          - Solve a system of linear equations :math:`AxX=B` after performing an LU factorization using GETRF.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRI <hipblas_getri>`

>           - Compute the inverse of a matrix using its LU factorization.

Reviewer: Only the batched version of getri is supported, not sure if that's noted somewhere.

Author: Fixed.

          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

  .. tab-item:: Complex types
    :sync: complex-type

    .. list-table::
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 15, 55, 10, 20

        * 
          - Function
          - Description
          - complex
          - double complex

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRF <hipblas_getrf>`
          - Compute the LU factorization of a general matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRS <hipblas_getrs>`
          - Solve a system of linear equations :math:`AxX=B` after performing an LU factorization using GETRF.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRI <hipblas_getri>`
          - Compute the inverse of a matrix using its LU factorization.
          - ⚠️ [#getri]_
          - ⚠️ [#getri]_

        * 
          - :ref:`GEQRF <hipblas_geqrf>`
          - QR factorization of a general matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GELS <hipblas_gels>`
          - Solve overdetermined or underdetermined linear systems using the QR factorization of a matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

.. rubric:: Footnotes

> .. [#getri] Only the batched GETR functions are supported.

Reviewer: typo: GETR -> GETRI

Author: Fixed.

.. _data-types-support:

********************************************************************
Data type support
********************************************************************

This topic lists the data type support for the hipBLAS library on AMD GPUs for
different levels of BLAS operations :ref:`Level 1 <level-1>`,
:ref:`2 <level-2>`, and :ref:`3 <level-3>`. 

The hipBLAS library functions are also available with ILP64 interfaces. With
these interfaces, all ``int`` arguments are replaced by the type name
``int64_t``. For more information on these ``_64`` functions, see the 
:ref:`ILP64 API` section.

The icons representing different levels of support are explained in the
following table.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    *
      -  Icon
      - Definition

    *
      - NA
      - Not applicable

    *
      - ❌
      - Not supported

    *
      - ⚠️
      - Partial support

    *
      - ✅
      - Full support

For more information about data type support for the other ROCm libraries, see 
:doc:`Data types and precision support page <rocm:reference/precision-support>`. 

Custom types
============

> hipBlas defines the ``hipblasBfloat16``, ``hipblasComplex`` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hipBlas defines the ``hipblasBfloat16``, ``hipblasComplex``, and
```

``HIPBLAS_USE_HIP_BFLOAT16`` before including the header file ``<hipblas.h>``.

.. note::

   The ``hip_bfloat16`` data type is only supported on AMD platforms.

.. _hipblas_complex:

Complex data types
------------------

hipBLAS defines ``hipblasComplex`` and ``hipblasDoubleComplex`` structs. These
types contain ``x`` and ``y`` components and have an identical memory layout to
``std::complex`` for float and double precision.

For simplified usage with Hipified code, there is an option to interpret the API
as using ``hipComplex`` and ``hipDoubleComplex`` types (for example,
``typedef hipComplex hipblasComplex``). This is provided for users who want to
avoid casting when using the HIP complex types in their code. Because the memory
layout is consistent across all three types, it is safe to cast arguments to API
calls between the 3 types ``hipComplex``, ``std::complex<float>``, and
``hipblasComplex``, as well as for the double-precision variants.

To expose an API that uses the HIP-defined complex types, use a compiler define
or inline ``#define ROCM_MATHLIBS_API_USE_HIP_COMPLEX`` before including the
header file ``<hipblas.h>``. The API is therefore compatible with both forms,

> but recompilation is required to avoid casting if switching to passing in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but recompilation is required to avoid casting if switching to pass in the
```

HIP complex types.

.. note::

  ``hipblasComplex``, ``hipblasDoubleComplex``, and the use of 
  ``ROCM_MATHLIBS_API_USE_HIP_COMPLEX`` are now deprecated. The API will provide
  interfaces that only use ``hipComplex`` and ``hipDoubleComplex`` in the
  future.
  
  For more information, see :ref:`HIPBLASV2 DEP`.

Functions data type support
=======================================

> This section colledcted the data tpye support tables of BLAS functions and

Reviewer: tpye -> type; colledcted -> collected/collects?

Author: Fixed.

> This section colledcted the data tpye support tables of BLAS functions and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section collects the data type support tables of BLAS functions and
```

          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRMM <hipblas_trmm>`
          - Triangular matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRSM <hipblas_trsm>`
          - Triangular solve with multiple right-hand sides.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅
        * 
          - :ref:`HEMM <hipblas_hemm>`
          - Hermitian matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA

        * 
          - :ref:`HERK <hipblas_herk>`, :ref:`HER2K <hipblas_her2k>`
          - Update Hermitian matrix with one matrix product or by using two matrices.
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA

        * 
          - :ref:`HERKX <hipblas_herkx>`
          - HERKX adds an extra matrix multiplication step before updating the Hermitian matrix.
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA
          - NA

        * 
          - :ref:`TRTRI <hipblas_trtri>`
          - Triangular matrix inversion.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`DGMM <hipblas_dgmm>`

>           - Diagonal matrix matric multiplication.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean matrix-matrix?

Author: Fixed.

          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`SYRKX <hipblas_syrkx>`
          - SYRKX adds an extra matrix multiplication step before updating the symmetric matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRMM <hipblas_trmm>`
          - Triangular matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRSM <hipblas_trsm>`
          - Triangular solve with multiple right-hand sides.
          - ✅
          - ✅
        * 
          - :ref:`HEMM <hipblas_hemm>`
          - Hermitian matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`HERK <hipblas_herk>`, :ref:`HER2K <hipblas_her2k>`
          - Update Hermitian matrix with one matrix product or by using two matrices.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`HERKX <hipblas_herkx>`
          - HERKX adds an extra matrix multiplication step before updating the Hermitian matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRTRI <hipblas_trtri>`
          - Triangular matrix inversion.
          - ❌
          - ❌

        * 
          - :ref:`DGMM <hipblas_dgmm>`

>           - Diagonal matrix matric multiplication.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above

Author: Fixed.

          - ✅
          - ✅

Extensions
----------

> The extension function data type support is listed for every function separately

Reviewer 2: Is it worth mentioning that these are rocBLAS extensions?

Author: I am mentioning here the hipBLAS extensions functions, not rocBLAS.

Reviewer 2: @neon60 OK, the link goes to the rocBLAS extension page, so that's why I was confused. As long as that's what you want, we're good.

Author: Wow, thanks. It's interesting. So the reference should be unique. I pushed the fix.

Author: Ctrl+F5 needed for testing

Reviewer 2: Looks good now!

on the :ref:`Extensions reference page <extension>`. 

SOLVER API
----------

:ref:`Solver API <solver_api>` is for solving linear systems, computing matrix
inverses, and performing matrix factorizations.

.. tab-set::

  .. tab-item:: Float types
    :sync: float-type

    .. list-table::
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 15, 45, 10, 10, 10, 10

        * 
          - Function
          - Description
          - float16
          - bfloat16
          - float
          - double

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRF <hipblas_getrf>`

>           - Computes the LU factorization of a general matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          - Compute the LU factorization of a general matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges.
```

          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRS <hipblas_getrs>`

>           - Solve a system of linear equations :math:`AxX=B` after performing an LU factorization using getrf.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          - Solve a system of linear equations :math:`AxX=B` after performing an LU factorization using GETRF.
```

          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRI <hipblas_getri>`
          - Compute the inverse of a matrix using its LU factorization.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GEQRF <hipblas_geqrf>`
          - QR factorization of a general matrix.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GELS <hipblas_gels>`
          - Solve overdetermined or underdetermined linear systems using the QR factorization of a matrix.
          - ❌
          - ❌
          - ✅
          - ✅

  .. tab-item:: Complex types
    :sync: complex-type

    .. list-table::
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 15, 55, 10, 20

        * 
          - Function
          - Description
          - complex
          - double complex

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRF <hipblas_getrf>`

>           - Computes the LU factorization of a general matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          - Compute the LU factorization of a general matrix using partial pivoting with row interchanges.
```

          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`GETRS <hipblas_getrs>`

>           - Solve a system of linear equations :math:`AxX=B` after performing an LU factorization using getrf.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          - Solve a system of linear equations :math:`AxX=B` after performing an LU factorization using GETRF.
```

Complex data types
------------------

hipBLAS defines ``hipblasComplex`` and ``hipblasDoubleComplex`` structs. These
types contain ``x`` and ``y`` components and have an identical memory layout to
``std::complex`` for float and double precision.

For simplified usage with Hipified code, there is an option to interpret the API
as using ``hipComplex`` and ``hipDoubleComplex`` types (for example,
``typedef hipComplex hipblasComplex``). This is provided for users who want to
avoid casting when using the HIP complex types in their code. Because the memory
layout is consistent across all three types, it is safe to cast arguments to API
calls between the 3 types ``hipComplex``, ``std::complex<float>``, and
``hipblasComplex``, as well as for the double-precision variants.

To expose an API that uses the HIP-defined complex types, use a compiler define
or inline ``#define ROCM_MATHLIBS_API_USE_HIP_COMPLEX`` before including the
header file ``<hipblas.h>``. The API is therefore compatible with both forms,
but recompilation is required to avoid casting if switching to pass in the
HIP complex types.

.. note::

  ``hipblasComplex``, ``hipblasDoubleComplex``, and the use of 

>   ``ROCM_MATHLIBS_API_USE_HIP_COMPLEX`` are now deprecated. The API provide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``ROCM_MATHLIBS_API_USE_HIP_COMPLEX`` are now deprecated. The API provides
```

          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRMM <hipblas_trmm>`
          - Triangular matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRSM <hipblas_trsm>`
          - Triangular solve with multiple right-hand sides.
          - ✅
          - ✅
        * 
          - :ref:`HEMM <hipblas_hemm>`
          - Hermitian matrix-matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`HERK <hipblas_herk>`, :ref:`HER2K <hipblas_her2k>`
          - Update Hermitian matrix with one matrix product or by using two matrices.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`HERKX <hipblas_herkx>`
          - HERKX adds an extra matrix multiplication step before updating the Hermitian matrix.
          - ✅
          - ✅

        * 
          - :ref:`TRTRI <hipblas_trtri>`
          - Triangular matrix inversion.
          - ❌
          - ❌

        * 
          - :ref:`DGMM <hipblas_dgmm>`
          - Diagonal matrix matrix multiplication.
          - ✅
          - ✅

Extensions
----------

The :ref:`extension functions <hipblas_extension>` data type support is listed

> for every function separately for different backends on the
> :ref:`rocBLAS extensions <rocblas:extension>` or
> `cuBLAS extensions <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cublas/index.html#blas-like-extension>`_ 
> documentation pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
separately for every function for the different backends in the
:ref:`rocBLAS extensions <rocblas:extension>` and
`cuBLAS extensions <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cublas/index.html#blas-like-extension>`_ 
documentation.
```
